Epstein invited 'The Duke' to meet Russian woman
The documents shed light on the disgraced financier's close association with Britain's elite.

They include emails between Epstein and a person named "The Duke" - believed to be Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor - discussing having dinner at Buckingham Palace, where there was "lots of privacy".

Another message from Epstein includes an offer to introduce "The Duke" to a 26-year-old Russian woman.

The emails are signed "A", with a signature that appears to read "HRH Duke of York KG". They were exchanged in August 2010, two years after Epstein pleaded guilty to soliciting a minor.

The emails do not indicate any wrongdoing.

The BBC has contacted Andrew, formerly known as the Duke of York, for a response. Mountbatten-Windsor has faced years of scrutiny over his past friendship with Epstein. He has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing.

Some emails in the latest release appear to be between Epstein and Sarah Ferguson, Andrew's ex-wife.

One email dated 4 April 2009, was signed "Love, Sarah, The red Head.!!"

It says that she was going to be in Palm Beach and wanted to have tea. The email goes on to discuss ideas for Ferguson's company, Mother's Army. The former Duchess of York refers to Epstein as "My dear spectacular and special friend Jeffrey".

She calls him a "legend" and says "I am so proud of you".

The financier was still under house arrest for his 2008 conviction when the email exchange was sent.

Epstein sent money to Mandelson's husband
Other emails show Epstein sent £10,000 ($13,692) to Lord Peter Mandelson's husband Reinaldo Avila da Silva in 2009.

In an email to Epstein, da Silva sets out the costs of an osteopathy course, provides his bank details and thanks the financier for "anything you can help me with".

Epstein replies a few hours later saying he would wire the loan amount and da Silva, who married Mandelson in 2023, replies with a thank you the following day.

In another batch of emails, Lord Mandelson asks to stay at one of Epstein's properties.

The emails are from 16 June 2009, when Epstein was serving a prison sentence for soliciting prostitution from someone under the age of 18. For much of his sentence, Epstein was allowed to work from his office during the day and returned to jail each night.

In December 2024, Lord Mandelson was appointed as the UK's ambassador to the US, but was sacked less than a year later when it emerged he had sent supportive messages to Epstein following the conviction.

Lord Mandelson has repeatedly said he regrets his past friendship with Epstein, which has long been public knowledge. He has said he never saw any wrongdoing while with Epstein and "fell for his lies".

Trump mentioned hundreds of times
The US president is mentioned hundreds of times in the newly released files. Trump had a friendship with Epstein but he says it soured many years ago and has denied any knowledge of his sex crimes.

Among the new documents is a list compiled by the FBI last year of allegations made against Trump by callers to its national Threat Operation Center tip line. Many of these appear to be based on unverified tips received by the agency and were made without supporting evidence.

The list includes numerous allegations of sexual abuse made against Trump, Epstein and other high-profile figures.

Trump has consistently denied any wrongdoing in relation to Epstein and has not been accused of any crimes by Epstein's victims.

When asked about the latest allegations, both the White House and justice department pointed to a line in a news release accompanying the new batch of files.

"Some of the documents contain untrue and sensationalist claims against President Trump that were submitted to the FBI right before the 2020 election," the US Justice Department said.

"To be clear, the claims are unfounded and false, and if they have a shred of credibility, they certainly would have been weaponised against President Trump already."

Elon Musk asked Epstein when 'wildest party' on his island will be
The documents also include email correspondence between Epstein and tech billionaire Elon Musk.

Musk, who has not been accused of any wrongdoing in the case, has previously said that Epstein had invited him to his island but he had declined.

The new emails show Musk had discussed travelling there on more than one occasion - including a proposed 2012 trip - in which he asked Epstein: "What day/night will be the wildest party on your island?"

The emails from November 2012 show Epstein asked how many people Musk would need transporting on a helicopter to the island and Musk replies that he it would only be himself and his then-wife, Talulah Riley.

An email from Musk to Epstein on Christmas in 2012 includes Musk inquiring whether the financier had any parties planned because he needs to "let loose".

"I've been working to the edge of sanity this year and so, once my kids head home after Christmas, I really want to hit the party scene in St Barts or elsewhere and let loose," he writes, adding that a "peaceful island experience" is the opposite of what he's wanting.

In another batch of emails from the end of 2013, Musk and Epstein discuss a visit to the financier's island and are working on logistics and dates.

There is no evidence that Musk ever did end up taking a trip to Epstein's island.

Musk said in an X post on Saturday that he was "well aware that some email correspondence with [Epstein] could be misinterpreted and used by detractors to smear my name".

He added: "I don't care about that, but what I do care about is that we at least attempt to prosecute those who committed serious crimes with Epstein, especially regarding heinous exploitation of underage girls."

Bill Gates dismisses lurid claims by Epstein as 'absurd and false'
A spokesperson for Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates has responded to lurid allegations contained in the latest Epstein files – including that he caught a sexually-transmitted disease – calling them "absolutely absurd and completely false".

Two emails from 18 July 2013 appear to have been drafted by Epstein but it is unclear if they were ever sent to Gates. Both were sent from Epstein's email account and back to the same account, while no email account associated with Gates is visible and both emails are unsigned.

One email is written as a resignation letter from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and complains about having had to procure medicine for Gates "to deal with the consequences of sex with Russian girls".

The other, which begins "dear Bill", complains about Gates having ended a friendship and makes more claims about Gates having tried to cover up a sexually transmitted infection, including from his then-wife, Melinda.

A spokesperson for Gates told the BBC: "These claims – from a proven, disgruntled liar – are absolutely absurd and completely false."

They added: "The only thing these documents demonstrate is Epstein's frustration that he did not have an ongoing relationship with Gates and the lengths he would go to entrap and defame."

Criticism over identification of victims


1:13
Gloria Allred: Epstein victims 'devastated' by latest files
Gloria Allred, a women's rights lawyer who has represented many of Epstein's victims, told the BBC that numerous survivors' names had been disclosed in the latest release, including some who had not been previously identified publicly.

Many of the documents released on Friday include heavy redactions. The law mandates that redactions can only be made to protect victims or information currently under investigation. It also mandates a summary of the redactions made and the legal basis for them.

Deputy Attorney General Blanche said the redactions aimed to protect victims and the justice department had hundreds of employees combing through the documents for more than two months to ensure they were released quickly.

But Allred said Blanche's stated hope that the release would "bring closure" to the victims was "ridiculous".

"They have devastated so many of these survivors by publicly releasing their names," Allred said.

"In some cases... they have a line through the names but you can still read the names.

"In other cases, they've shown photos of victims - survivors who have never done a public interview, never given their name publicly."

She said that while her legal team was working to inform the department of where further redactions needed to be made to protect victims' identities, "many people have already downloaded the files".

Allred described the situation as "an absolute mess", saying the department had "reached a new low" and "should be ashamed of themselves".

The BBC has contacted the Department of Justice for further comment.

Have all the Epstein files now been released?
It is uncertain if this is end of the road for the Epstein documents release saga.

Blanche said Friday's drop "marks the end of a very comprehensive document identification and review process" signalling that as far as the US justice department is concerned, it's job over.

However, Democrats continue to argue that the department has withheld too many documents – possibly around two-and-a-half million – without proper justification.

Democratic Congressman Ro Khanna, who spearheaded the Epstein Files Transparency Act alongside Republican Congressman Thomas Massie, said he's wary.

"The DOJ said it identified over 6 million potentially responsive pages but is releasing only about 3.5 million after review and redactions," he said.

"This raises questions as to why the rest are being withheld. I will be reviewing closely to see if they release what I've been pushing for."

The Department of Justice had been under heavy scrutiny after missing the 19 December deadline to release all files as mandated in the Epstein Files Transparency Act, which passed Congress and was signed into law in November.

But still, whether this saga is over remains to be seen.

Many - including within Trump's base - have long believed there was a conspiracy to protect the rich and powerful who were connected to Epstein.

Blanche acknowledged the release of these documents would not satisfy that need for more information. He said the files don't contain the names of specific men who abused women and that, if the department had those names, the men would be prosecuted.

"I don't think that the public or you all are going to uncover men within the Epstein files that abused women, unfortunately."

Additional reporting by Jack Fenwick, Chi Chi Izundu and Amy Walker

Who and what are in the Epstein files?
Who was Jeffrey Epstein? The disgraced financier with powerful associates
New photos from Epstein estate show Trump, Andrew and Bill Clinton
Jeffrey Epstein
Donald Trump
US politics
United States
Related
Photos released in Epstein files appear to show Andrew on all fours over female
Epstein sent £10,000 to Mandelson's partner, released emails show
Ghislaine Maxwell to testify before US Congress in Epstein probe
More from the BBC
2 hrs ago
A woman is seen carrying a shopping bag and a man is seen getting into a yellow taxi cab in the foreground of the photo, while in the background there is a huge anti-US billboard which reads 'If you sow the wind, you will reap the whirlwind' 
Israel eyes regime change in Iran - and is counting on Trump to make it happen
Analysts believe PM Netanyahu is urging the US towards maximalist strikes.

10 hrs ago
The US Capitol building in Washington, DC, on Friday, Jan. 30, 2026. There is snow in the foreground of the image.
US government partially shuts down despite last minute funding deal
The soonest the US House of Representatives can vote on the funding deal and end the shutdown is Monday.

10 hrs ago
People in New York City carry a banner that reads "ICE OUT".
US cities hold anti-ICE protests during nationwide day of action
Demonstrations were held to protest the fatal shootings of Renee Good and Alex Pretti by federal agents in Minneapolis.

12 hrs ago
A close-up portrait of Melania at the premiere, wearing black
What we learned - and didn't - from the Melania documentary
Melania, directed by Brett Ratner, provides a fleeting glimpse into the life of the enigmatic first lady.

13 hrs ago
Cast member Catherine O'Hara attends the UK premiere of the film "Beetlejuice Beetlejuice" at Leicester Square in London, Britain, August 29, 2024. 
Schitt's Creek and Home Alone star Catherine O'Hara dies aged 71
The Emmy-winning
Amid the din of global speculation over US military build-up in the Middle East, Israel's leaders have remained unusually silent.

Aside from some remarks in support of Iran's anti-government protests this month, Israel's prime minister has had little to say publicly about his superpower ally taking on his biggest enemy. His government has remained equally silent.

"It shows you the importance Netanyahu puts on this moment," said Danny Citrinowicz, who served for 25 years in Israel's Defence Intelligence, and is now senior Iran researcher at Israel's Institute for National Security Studies.

"For Netanyahu, being in this position where the US has so many forces in the Gulf, being so close to Trump attacking Iran, this is - for him - a golden moment in time that he cannot forgo."

Asaf Cohen, a former deputy director of Israel's signals intelligence unit, says there's strategy in Israel's silence too.

"The [Israeli] leadership believes we should allow the Americans to lead the way this time, because they are stronger, have more capabilities, and have much more legitimacy in the world."

Benjamin Netanyahu has long seen Iran as the key threat facing Israel, and the biggest source of instability in the Middle East. His public silence does not signal a lack of private discussion with his key US ally.

This week, Israel's military intelligence chief, Shlomi Binder, met US intelligence agencies in Washington. According to Israeli media, the discussion focused on possible targets in Iran.

Getty Images A smiling Netanyahu, who has grey hair and wears a suit, at a lectern in during a press conference at Mar-a-Lago in December with Trump, who has blonde combed over hair and also wears a suitGetty Images
Netanyahu reportedly asked Trump to hold back in his response to Iran earlier this month
Citrinowicz believes Netanyahu is privately pushing the US towards maximalist strikes aimed at regime change in Iran, and that when Netanyahu reportedly urged Trump to hold back earlier this month, he says, it was because he viewed the planned US attack as "too small".

Netanyahu has previously urged Iranians to "stand up" to their regime, in an interview with Fox News last year.

US president Donald Trump is currently considering a range of actions against Iran – they are reported to include both limited symbolic strikes and full-blown regime change. In public, he has alternated military threats with the offer of fresh negotiations.

While many US allies are warning that trying to unseat Iran's leadership carries huge risks for the region, many in Israel see potential benefits for their security.

By changing the regime in Tehran, Israel would hope to end the threat from Iran's ballistic missiles, and the possibility that it would one day acquire nuclear weapons too.

It would also further weaken Iran's proxy militia around the region, including Hezbollah, which still has up to 25,000 missiles and rockets across the border in Lebanon according to Israel's Alma research institute.

In contrast, some Israeli lawmakers believe a limited strike, or even a new deal with Iran, could carry bigger risks for Israel's security by leaving the regime in place.

"When you deal with total evil, you don't act limited," said Moshe Tur-Paz, a member of the Yesh Atid opposition party who sits on the Defence Committee of Israel's parliament.

"There's a consensus that Israel should act much stronger and so should the Western world. When it comes to our worst enemies like Iran, there are no big differences. We all understand the threat."

Another round of conflict that left the regime intact would not be worth the price paid in Iran's retaliation, many say.

During the 12-day war last year, when Israel and the US attacked Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile sites, Iran fired back hundreds of ballistic missiles at Israeli towns and cities. Some evaded Israel's vaunted air-defences, slamming into apartment blocks in Tel Aviv and killing at least 28 people.

Why Iran's response to a US attack could be different this time
What could happen if the US strikes Iran? Here are seven scenarios
Reuters Israeli police in front of a destroyed blockReuters
Some Iranian missiles got through Israeli air defences during the 12-day war
The Israeli military had prepared for many more casualties, but Tehran's heightened sense of vulnerability now could mean a more intense response.

And analysts have suggested that Iran learned from that conflict, adapting its tactics as the war progressed. Half a year on, Iran is rebuilding its missile stocks.

This week, a senior adviser to Iran's Supreme Leader warned on social media that Tel Aviv would be hit with an "immediate and unprecedented" response in the event of any US attack.

"Netanyahu is afraid Israel will [again] go through the pain of an attack without a change of regime," said Citrinowicz. "He came to the conclusion that to stop the missiles being built, you have to have regime change, but regime change can happen only with the US."

And this moment of intense vulnerablity for the Iranian regime – its military defences diminished after the 12-day war, its regional proxy forces weakened, and after widespread protests against its rule at home – also represents an opportunity, says Cohen.

"Iran is at its weakest now - this is an opportunity that may not come again," said Cohen. "There are a lot of people who believe this is the time - it's now or never."

In Tel Aviv, residents still living with the wreckage from Iranian missile strikes last June are speculating about another conflict.

"I hope [our leaders] don't miss this opportunity," said Neria, a young man in his early 20s.

"If it's through attack or through other means, I don't know, but certainly we should leverage the situation to switch regimes. It won't be the first time we'll deal with the bombs - it's not nice, but if it's going to help us in the longer term to feel safer here then we will have to go through it".

Dave Bull/BBC Tel Aviv beachDave Bull/BBC
Poll suggest Israelis support military action against Iran
Shani, a young woman nearby, said she had mixed feelings.

"I know the Iranian people - many of them - want the US to help. I just hope that everyone will stay safe," she said. "Politicians need to think about the people. Actions have consequences."

Israeli polls repeatedly show a strong majority of Jewish residents support military action against Iran - including after the 12-day war last year.

But the risks of regime change remain. With no obvious cracks in the military and clerical alliance around Iran's Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and a splintered opposition movement in the country, it's not clear who would take over control of Iran if the government fell.

A younger successor from the same ruling elite would not necessarily be more flexible in their response to Israel, and the chaos of a civil war would not only be deeply destabilising for Iranians, but for the region as a whole.

And several defence insiders have pointed out that regimes are not usually toppled by air-strikes alone.

Israel's prime minister, facing elections this year, has worked hard since the Hamas attacks to try and restore his broken image as Israel's "Mr Security". Regime change in Iran – or Khamanei's assassination - would be a political prize, but also a risk.

"It is a gamble, but it's a calculated one," says Citrinowicz.

"Netanyahu couldn't care less what happens the day after Khamenei. He wants to show, together with Trump, that he destroyed the Iranian regime. It's a risk he's willing to take if he knows the Americans will go all the way. The problem is Trump."

Getty Images Iran's Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, who has glasses and a grey beard and is wearing long dark robes, waves at a crowd in TehranGetty Images
Protests in Iran have so far failed to overthrow Ayatollah Khamenei's regime
Both the US and Iran have said they are open to negotiations, but Trump has conditioned talks on ending Iran's uranium enrichment along with its support for proxies in the region, and limits on its ballistic missiles – all seen as red lines for the regime.

Israel's leadership is firmly against a deal, and Israeli analysts are divided over whether one is even achievable.

Cohen said he thought both Washington and Tehran wanted an agreement, but that if one wasn't reached soon the US would strike.

"Iran's Supreme Leader and Trump have something in common. There aren't really any red lines. During the negotiations in 2013, we used to called them 'pink lines', because they changed," said Cohen.

"We always talk about Iran as evil, but they are very rational," he said. "I think they understand that in order to change the situation, they need to do something that hasn't been done until now."

"Yes, the ability to show compromise is there, they're not North Korea, but this regime has its red lines," countered Citrinowicz, warning that a war would be hard to contain "because Iranians will think it's a war for their survival".

There are signs that Trump may be limiting his conditions for negotiations and focusing on Iran's nuclear programme. If the bar is lowered enough for Tehran to begin talks, much of the region will breathe a sigh of relief - and many in Israel will hold their breath.

Cohen says there are ways of constructing compromises on issues such as enrichment that could temporarily prevent any new activity in practice while allowing Iran to avoid an explicit ban.

"The essential difference between us and the Iranians is we like quick results, and the Iranians have great patience," he said. "They say: 'we've been here 2000 years, if we need another 30 years to get a nuclear weapon, it's ok'."

Iran wants to make deal rather than face military action, Trump says
Trump tells Iran to drop nuclear aims and stop killing protesters to avoid military action
What could happen if the US strikes Iran? Here are seven scenarios
At the heart of the strategy behind the prime minister's visit to China this week is what some describe as China's "looking up economy".

What they mean by this is this is a tightly controlled state where the Chinese Communist Party is ever present. So, to deliver significant change the message from the top has to be abundantly clear, and when it is big shifts in outlook might then follow.

Downing Street hopes Sir Keir Starmer's three-day visit, including meeting President Xi and Premier Li in Beijing and a subsequent trip to Shanghai, will be noticed.

There has been no shortage of political and corporate glad-handing.

The early indications, from Sir Keir's point of view, appear positive.

As our China correspondent Laura Bicker has reported, Chinese state media, the mouthpiece of the Communist party, spent 18 minutes of its flagship 30-minute evening bulletin discussing the prime minister's visit on the day he met the president.

And of the sporting and cultural organisations I have spoken to that have accompanied the prime minister on this trip, as well as the businesses, there is a hope this could be an important moment - that opens up new opportunities for them.

"As long as this isn't a one-off," one put it to me. This was not a "one and done" visit, the prime Minister's official spokesman told us.

PA Media Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer with President Xi Jinping of China ahead of a bilateral meeting at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, during his visit to China on 29 January 2026PA Media
Sir Keir Starmer met President Xi Jinping in Beijing and announced agreements on visas and import taxes
China, meanwhile, can revel in the reality that it matters, as a parade of Western leaders pass through.

French President Emmanuel Macron and Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney have both visited recently.

Carney was to find out shortly afterwards how such a visit can go down in the White House if President Donald Trump reckons a country is considering getting too close to Beijing. The short answer: not very well.

Sir Keir had his own, more minor taste of that, when President Trump said it was "very dangerous" for the UK to do business with China.

On the rhetorical Richter scale of presidential admonishments, this was seen by the prime minister's team as pretty minor, not least because later in the same exchanges Trump described Xi as a "friend".

Sir Keir added, in an interview with me, that "it would be foolhardy to simply say we would ignore" China.

Over the last few days of long flights and long days, I have seen a conviction in the prime minister's case on China. He clearly finds it absurd that there was an eight-year gap between this visit and the last one by one of his predecessors, Theresa May, in 2018.

He sees these as wasted years and wants to make up for lost time. And he sees a dividing line with the Conservatives he appears happy to point out. Tory leader Kemi Badenoch told the BBC the other day that were she prime minister now, she would not have come on this trip.

China lifts sanctions on MPs and peers, as Starmer says he hopes Xi will visit UK
China to relax travel rules for British visitors, UK says
Healthcare, visas and whisky: What did UK and China get from Starmer's visit?
So what can we take from what Sir Keir has managed to achieve?

There has been no shortage of schmoozing and warm words. That is because both are fuel in this "looking up economy" I mentioned.

Then there are the concrete agreements: the halving of tariffs, or import taxes, on whisky sold by the UK to China and the removal of sanctions imposed on some parliamentarians back in 2021.

And then there was an idea announced, but not yet delivered. The prime minister said the requirement for British visitors to need a visa to visit China for under 30 days would be scrapped. But the Chinese government said it was something they were merely "actively considering."

Sir Keir insisted to me it will happen, but acknowledged there was no start date agreed. "We are making progress," he said.

Ministers and the officials working on the minutiae of the negotiations are hopeful there can be a step-by-step ratcheting up of dividends associated with a closer, warmer relationship.

But perhaps little wonder some are queasy about this warmth. Critics say China is simply a state that cannot be trusted.

They point to human rights abuses, such as the plight of the Uyghurs and also to the jailing in Hong Kong of Jimmy Lai, the pro-democracy media tycoon.

Others talk about Chinese cyber attacks or MI5 issuing an alert to parliament before Christmas over Chinese spying in Westminster.

Security minister Dan Jarvis described that as a "covert and calculated attempt by China to interfere with our sovereign affairs."

And to illustrate that lack of trust, everyone I have encountered on this trip, from government officials to the corporate and cultural delegation to journalists, have taken more electronic security precautions than on any other trip I have been on. Most are on temporary phone numbers and many have left their usual digital devices at home.

Quite the backdrop, then, for a relationship being warmed up.

PA Media Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer speaking during the 2026 UK-China Business Council at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, during his visit to ChinaPA Media
Representatives from British businesses and cultural institution accompanied Sir Keir on the visit
But having followed the prime minister, at home and abroad, for the nearly 19 months of his time in office, he has now set out his vision for foreign policy - and begun to match it with actions and visits.

"We have to engage with this volatile world" is how he summarised his approach when I spoke to him. "I don't think I have known a time when what is happening internationally is impacting what is going on back home so directly."

He is stung and irritated by the label lobbed at him by critics who describe him as "never here Keir" because of the number of foreign trips he does.

He has notably tried to push back on this trip, repeatedly talking about how events overseas have a bearing on the cost of living at home. He even made a reference to prices in the supermarkets when he was talking to President Xi in the Great Hall of the People.

Sir Keir has sought a close relationship with President Trump and secured it. For now at least. This is grounded in being judicious in his public remarks and only criticising the president when he thinks it is absolutely essential, such as recently over Greenland and the British troops killed and injured in Afghanistan.

He describes the UK as having "reset" its relationship with the European Union post-Brexit and has done a trade deal with India. And now, here he is in China.

Inevitably, if he leans too far in one direction, it limits his options in another. Rejoin the EU's customs union, and those trade deals with others would be gone, as he points out to his Labour colleagues who have called for just that.

Be seen to get too close to China, and prepare for the verbal hairdryer from the White House.

The trade-offs are legion.

"I'm a pragmatist, a British pragmatist, applying common sense," the prime minister told us on the plane, saying his desire was to "make Britain face outwards again."

Outwards and in multiple directions is his approach, moving incrementally.

Thin, red banner promoting the Politics Essential newsletter with text saying, “Top political analysis in your inbox every day”. There is also an image of the Houses of Parliament.
Sign up for our Politics Essential newsletter to keep up with the inner workings of Westminster and beyond.
